ASYCUDA WORLD
Declaration Processing

       Brokers’
    USER MANUAL
              ASY C U D A Wor l d -D e c l a r a t i o n                                 Process ing

                                          USE R MA N U A L




                                                      Introduction
The declaration processing capability is the core component of any automated customs software. It reflects both the
system behavior and the customs practice in force. When it is plugged into its surrounding environment; customs tariffs,
reference tables, taxation rules and the other customs legal basis, a complete customs automated system is created.



Declarations are the base document of the customs and are used to control the movement of goods into and out of the
country. They also represent the data repository for calculation, and consequently collection, of taxes and duties as well as
the main source of national trade statistics.



AW provides a robust, comprehensive declaration processing capability which is based on using the SAD as a standard
form. The SAD (Acronym of Single Administrative Document, developed by the EU and called for as an ‘International
Standard’ by the WCO), as utilized by AW Declaration Processing Capability (DPC), covers all customs procedures and
regimes except transit procedures.



In this system, customs officers do not key in declaration on behalf of traders. Rather they do the control portion of the
customs’ declaration process. More room is left for traders to key in their declaration themselves (DTI).




                                                                                                                             2
           ASY C U D A Wor l d -D e c l a r a t i o n                                            Process ing

                                       USE R MA N U A L

Before keying declaration please ensure that you have all the required documents needed to complete declaration,
such as; ASYCUDA bill of lading, invoices, freight document and any other permits of licenses must be submitted with
declaration.



   STEP 1- Create Declaration
   WHAT TO DO                  PROCEDURE
       1. Access Declaration   To access the declaration module Select the following path; ASYCUDA→
           Module              Goods Clearance→Declaration →Detailed Declaration as shown below

                               To open a new declaration, Right Click on Detailed
                               Declaration and select NEW




       2. Complete             After selecting the declaration model, the system will display the declaration Form
           General Segment     (Single Administrative Document – SAD) complete all the fields; begin with the
                               general segment.


   Use attached Declaration    In Box 1 select the model of
   Fields guide to complete    Declaration according to the Customs
   declaration                 Regime required for the goods being
                               imported or
                               exported.


                               It is very important to make sure you selected the correct model of declaration since it will determine
                               the type of controls and data that the system will make available on the declaration form

                               After filling out General segment continue by filling out all information in item
       3. Complete Item
           Segment             segment for Item1.




                                                                                                                                         3
         ASY C U D A Wor l d -D e c l a r a t i o n                                              Process ing

                                        USE R MA N U A L

                                NOTE: Use attached “Fields Guide” to fill out declaration
                                To open Valuation Note select Val. Note tab in the bottom of Declaration as indicated below.
    4. Complete                 Input invoiced value of all the goods declared in the main SAD form and other information
        Valuation Note          such as total freight, insurance and any other charges associated with the consignment.




                                It automatically apportions the costs between the declaration items when two more
                                items are declared.

                                Select Item Value note tab in bottom of declaration.
    5. Complete Item
        Value Note

 Information on Value note
should match information on
Valuation note if only 1 item   Upon the completion of all customs value related elements, the CIF value (which is the tax
is declared                     base for customs duties) is automatically calculated for each item.

                                To add another item select the add icon in the Menu Bar. Fill out all necessary
    6. Add additional
        Items (if required)      information and select add item icon     to continue adding items to
                                declaration
The system accepts up to
200 items per declaration



                                The system will automatically apportion the freight and other charges to the items declared based on
                                value.




                                                                                                                                       4
    ASY C U D A Wor l d -D e c l a r a t i o n                               Process ing

                             USE R MA N U A L

                       Select ATT. Doc tab on declaration, on this page select code type for document and
7. Attach Required
    documents          right click in reference section to attach document.




                       Use the additional info tab to input any pertinent information pertaining to the
8. Fill in Add. Info
                       declaration.




                       Fill in Suppliers Information for each invoice attached to the declaration
9. Fill in Suppliers
    Information




                                                                                                            5
        ASY C U D A Wor l d -D e c l a r a t i o n                                        Process ing

                                        USE R MA N U A L

                                 If goods are containerised select container tab and fill in the required information
    10. Fill Container
        information (if any)




STEP 2- Verify for consistency
WHAT TO DO                       PROCEDURE
    11. Verify Document          After inputting all required data select the Verify icon to check for any errors and to
                                 calculate duties.
System will not verify
document until all errors
are corrected


                                 If there are any errors system will indicate with a message prompt




STEP 3- Store Declaration
    12. Store Document             To store declaration select the Store icon           in the menu bar on the opened
                                   declaration.
The user can store a
declaration at anytime even if
the document is not completed.




                                   As soon as you select the Store option, the system will show the following
                                   screen, confirming that STORE of your declaration has been successful.




                                                                                                                           6
          ASY C U D A Wor l d -D e c l a r a t i o n                                            Process ing

                                            USE R MA N U A L

     13. Retrieve Stored               To retrieve a stored declaration go to Detailed declaration in document library
          Declaration                  and right click on FIND




                                       In finder use reference number to find declaration and select search button as
                                       shown below




                                       Right click on the desired document as shown below and select Retrieve to
                                       continue working on the declaration




STEP 4- Assess Declaration
          WHAT TO DO                   PROCEDURE
     14. Validate and Assess           On the opened declaration, select the Validate and Assess Icon to obtain
                                       assessment for payment.
Assess means that you are
submitting the declaration
for Customs acceptance, and
acknowledge the values
included in it as correct and exact.

                                       When you select this option, the system will verify that all data is consistent, even though
Assessment       of     a              you may have done it before.
declaration brings on all
legal     bindings   with
Customs.

                                       The System will indicate that your declaration is assessed and will indicate the
                                       assessment number needed to make payment.




                                                                                                                                      7
        ASY C U D A Wor l d -D e c l a r a t i o n                                           Process ing

                                    USE R MA N U A L




STEP 5- Make Payment and Request Selectivity
       WHAT TO DO              PROCEDURE
   15. Pay Declaration         Supply the cashier with the Assessment number of your declaration to make
                               payment.




   16. Request Selectivity
                               Cashier will issue a receipt to confirm payment of declaration.

                               Use finder to locate declaration, right click and select Release Order from the
                               drop down menu as indicated below




All declarations with Red or
Yellow lanes will have a       By selecting this option, you are requesting that customs system triggers the
customs officer assigned for   selectivity for determining what examination is required for your declaration
examination


                               System will indicate with a message the assigned lane for your declaration




                                                                                                                 8
              ASY C U D A Wor l d -D e c l a r a t i o n                              Process ing

                                        USE R MA N U A L




                                The system has four selectivity lanes for your declaration:

                                RedLane
                                This means that your declaration requires both documentary check and
                                Physical examination. Present to customs a printed Assessment Notice with all
                                relevant documents and await physical examination.

                                YellowLane
                                This means that your declaration only requires a documentary check. Present to
                                customs a printed copy of your Assessment Notice and all relevant documents.

                                BlueLane
                                This means that your declaration has been automatically authorized to be
                                released, however, your documents and good will undergo post clearance checks
                                by Customs.

                                GreenLane
                                This means that your declaration has been automatically authorized to be
                                released. If it is an import, you can collect your consignment from the custodian
                                of goods. If it is an export then your goods are ready to be shipped.

                                Note: Customs reserves the right to examine goods assigned to Green lane
STEP 6 - Collect Goods
    17. Lodge Document          Proceed to station where goods are located. Officer will advise whether you
  (Where goods are Located)     should wait or return for examination based on work load.
Only Red and Yellow lane
declarations should be lodged   Upon examination goods/document and issue a release order which must be
                                taken to custodian for delivery.




                                                                                                                    9
ASY C U D A Wor l d -D e c l a r a t i o n                      Process ing

                 USE R MA N U A L

             If declaration was assigned to green lane or blue, the Declarant can print his/her
             Release Order.




                                                                                                  10
