      RMI Finance Ministry – Customs
                 Division




ASYCUDAWORLD DECLARATION
       USER GUIDE




             RMI CUSTOMS DIVISION
                              RMI Finance Ministry – Customs
                                         Division


                                       DECLARATION USER GUIDE
Contents                                                                                      Page

1   Compiling a Goods Declaration - Single Administrative Document (SAD)                        2
    1.1 Logging into the ASYCUDAWorld system to access the Document library.                    2
    1.2 SAD (main form) and SAD item page (for multiple item declaration)                       6
    1.2.1      SAD Main Form                                                                    6
       1.2.1.1 Instructions and directions                                                      6
       1.2.1.2 Processing declarations with duty exemptions and waivers                         9
       1.2.1.3 Instruction to key-in Customs Declaration (SAD)                                  9
    1.2.2      SAD Item Form                                                                    13
    1.2.3      Valuation Note (General Valuation Note and Item Value)                           15
    1.2.4      Assessment Notice form                                                           16
    1.2.5      Information page form                                                            17
    1.2.6      Scanned documents form                                                           17
    1.2.7      Container Form (For Declarations with Container/s).                              18
       1.2.7.1 Steps involved in linking Containers(s) in the Bill of Lading to the Item(s)
               in the S.A.D                                                                     18
       1.2.7.2 Deleting or modifying containers in the container form.                          22
    1.2.8      Carrying out “Register” operation to submit the customs declaration to
               RMI customs                                                                      22

2   XML Export and Import for Customs Declaration (SAD)                                         26


    2.1 To export (Save) Custom declaration data (SAD) data to an XML file.                     26
    2.2 To import declaration data from a saved XML file to an empty declaration (SAD)
        eDocument.                                                                              28

3   XLS (Microsoft Excel) Import for Customs Declaration (SAD)                                  30


Appendix A – SAD fields and description




                                       IMPACT ASYCUDAWorld Project - RMI
                          RMI Finance Ministry – Customs
                                     Division



1. Compiling a Customs Goods Declaration - Single Administrative Document
  (S.A.D)


 1.1 Logging into the ASYCUDAWorld system to access the Document library.


        ➢ Log into the ASYCUDA World system using an authorized user name and password.
        ➢ Click on the “document library” icon on the tool bar to reach the e-Documents page.
        ➢ Enter login name and password and then press       to login into ASYCUDAWorld e-
          Document processing system.




        ➢ Once logging in is successful, the ASYCUDAWorld desktop screen will appear;




                                                                                                2
                         RMI Finance Ministry – Customs
                                    Division




   -   Press     button to get the ASYCUDA Document library.




The ASYCUDA Document Library has a number of modules and access to these are based on the
permissions granted.




                                                                                            3
                           RMI Finance Ministry – Customs
                                      Division




   Follow the document library folder path given below to obtain the SAD                        e-
   Document:

   ASYCUDA ➔ Goods Clearance ➔ Declaration ➔ Detailed Declaration ➔ <Right
   Click> Detailed Declaration ➔ <Select> New




This will open an empty Customs Declaration e-Document where traders and brokers can use to
submit details of their cargo consignments, based on supporting documents such as invoices, bills
of lading, packing lists, etc.


                                                                                                     4
                          RMI Finance Ministry – Customs
                                     Division




The customs declaration (SAD) consists of a main form and, five additional forms.

    1.   SAD (main form) and SAD item page (multiple item declaration)
    2.   Valuation Note (General Valuation Note and Item Value).
    3.   Assessment Notice Form
    4.   Information page form
    5.   Scanned documents form
    6.   Container Form (for Container Declaration).




                                                                                    5
                           RMI Finance Ministry – Customs
                                      Division


1.2 SAD (main form) and SAD item page (for multiple item declaration)

 1.2.1      SAD Main Form:

   1.2.1.1 Instructions and directions -

    Traders and importers can use the following instructions and directions when submitting
    the import and export customs declaration (S.A.D.) in the ASYCUDA World (AW) system:

    ▪      Matters to be considered when compiling a Customs Declaration.
    •     Please take note of the error messages, system messages, and follow instructions
    provided accordingly to complete the process.




    •    Use the F3-Function key on the computer key board to access any reference. Select a
         field that is enabled with F3 and <Right Click>, or press the F3 key directly;




                                                                                               6
                           RMI Finance Ministry – Customs
                                      Division


    ➢ Press the “Search”          button to receive the result window.




    ➢ Select the required result and press “Import”              to obtain the data into the
      SAD. <Right-click and then select "Import.”


    ➢ Select a field that is enabled with the drop-down feature to obtain the appropriate
      reference values for the declarations.




    ➢ Place and hover the mouse over a certain field, label, or button to view the description.




•   It is advised to obtain the eight-digit Harmonized System (HS) code for commodities from
    the shipper or supplier so that traders can use the code in the declaration.
    Traders can also use the Tariff Querry facility to get the HS code of the commodity. Invoke
    the F3 function key from Cage 33 to get the tariff query window.


                                                                                                  7
                          RMI Finance Ministry – Customs
                                     Division




•   Use the green tick from the below screen sign to import the selected HS code to cage 33.




                                                                                               8
                         RMI Finance Ministry – Customs
                                    Division


1.2.1.2 Processing declarations with duty exemptions and waivers



•     The relevant extended customs procedure and national procedure codes
      provided/given in cage 37 can be used to claim duty exemptions and waivers for the
      declaration.




•    Traders can also attach a scanned pdf copy of the duty exemptions and waivers
     letter(s) in the Scanned Document form.




1.2.1.3 Instruction to key-in Customs Declaration (SAD)


    Traders can import an XML or XLS file into the empty SAD declaration if they already have
    an XLS file or saved an XML file.


                                                                                           9
                        RMI Finance Ministry – Customs
                                   Division


•   Follow “XLS Import for Customs Declaration (SAD)” or “XML Export and Import
    for Customs Declaration (SAD)”, provided in the latter part of this guide, when using
    XML and XLS file import and export facilities.

    The SAD e-Document, which contain all the relevant details, is shown below.




                                                                                            10
                           RMI Finance Ministry – Customs
                                      Division


•    Notes:
    • For Import Declarations:

     The manifest field should be filled with a valid manifest registration year and number,
     as shown in the figure given below.

     Cage 40 of the SAD should be filled with the validated Bill of Lading reference number
     (B/L No.) of the registered manifest, which is mentioned in the “Manifest” field.

    <Year><Space><Manifest registration number>




•   The relevant bill of lading e-document can be viewed using the “View Waybill” button
    once the correct manifest registration number and bill of lading are entered in the
    declaration.




                                                                                               11
                      RMI Finance Ministry – Customs
                                 Division


A sample bill of lading e-document is shown below, and the data elements of the bill of
lading should match those of the customs declaration.




                                                                                          12
                             RMI Finance Ministry – Customs
                                        Division



      • An error window will pop up if the bill of lading for the given registered manifest cannot
        be located in the AW system. The carrier or freight forwarder should be contacted to get
        the correct manifest registration number and bill of lading number (B/L No).




  •    The bill of lading has one package while the declaration has many items. This declaration
       can be cleared by declaring 1 in the “Number of Packages” field in item 1 (one) and 0
       (zero) for the remaining items in the declaration.


1.2.2 SAD Item Form

  •    Additional items windows can be opened by pressing the “Add item” button on the
       toolbar.




  ➢ Fill in the mandatory item details as per the SAD eDocument.




                                                                                                 13
                              RMI Finance Ministry – Customs
                                         Division


•      Use “Delete Whole Page” and “Delete individual Item” to delete unnecessary items or
       item segments from SAD.




•      Verification of a declaration can be done at any time by clicking on the “Verify the
       document” icon at the top of the window.




       The system displays the above message for each successful verification.

•      The trader must rectify the errors before electronically submitting the SAD to customs.

•      The “XML file” of the declaration can be stored by clicking on the “Export to ASYCUDA
       XML file” icon on top of the window and storing the file accordingly.


•     Note:

    Follow “XML Export and Import for Customs Declaration (SAD)” provided in the latter part
    of this guide when using XML file export facilities.




                                                                                                 14
                         RMI Finance Ministry – Customs
                                    Division


1.2.3 Valuation Note (General Valuation Note and Item Value)

      The valuation note tab is where the trader has to declare additional freight (external
      and internal), insurance, and other costs. The valuation note has two parts.

     1. SAD-Valuation Note: General Segment - Contains the total value details of the
        declaration.
     2. SAD-Valuation Note: Item - Each item has its own valuation note segment and
        contains the item-wise valuation breakdown.




                                                                                               15
                       RMI Finance Ministry – Customs
                                  Division


1.2.4 Assessment Notice form

  The “SAD-Assessment Notice” form cannot be modified or entered with any data. The
  “SAD-Assessment” notice shows the duties and taxes that need to be paid as well as the
  total amount to be paid.




                                                                                           16
                         RMI Finance Ministry – Customs
                                    Division


1.2.5 Information page form

    The additional information about the customs declaration can be entered in the “Info.
    Page” tab. Customs and traders can use this space to exchange any information.




1.2.6 Scanned documents form

      Traders are required to add their supporting documents to this form to support their
      customs declaration.
      The following are the minimum required documents to be attached to the declaration:.

       o Commercial Invoice;
       o Bill of Lading;

•   Note:

    There is a file size limitation for the scanned documents, and traders are advised to break
    the larger documents into several scanned documents.

    Traders also have the option of uploading other supporting documents, such as:

    o Packing list
    o Duty exemption letters, etc.

                                                                                              17
                        RMI Finance Ministry – Customs
                                   Division




1.2.7 Container Form (For Declarations with Container/s).

   The traders can use following instructions to declare containers for their full cargo
  consignments (FCL).

 1.2.7.1 Steps involved in linking Containers(s) in the Bill of Lading to the Item(s) in the
      S.A.D:

     1. A new container tab can be created by checking the “Container flag”
        check box on field 19 of the S.A.D.




                                                                                           18
                        RMI Finance Ministry – Customs
                                   Division


  •   Note:
      The container details must be declared in the SAD in order to clear FCL
      consignments.

 2. Click on the “Containers” tab at the bottom of the tool bar menu.




3. Click on the “Item” field and press “F3”.




                                                                                19
                        RMI Finance Ministry – Customs
                                   Division




4. A new window will appear. Follow the steps given below to link the items in the
   declaration to the container in the bill of lading.




5. Click on the items in the Step 1, Step 2 and Step 3 to link the items with the
   container. Repeat Step 2 and Step 3 for the additional items in the declarations. Once
   all the Items in the declaration are linked to the containers, click the button in the
   Step 3 to create containers into the container tab. The completed container tab is
   shown below.

 •   Note:
      Ensure that the “Number of packages” and “Goods weight” fields in the
     “Containers” window, match with the “Number of packages (50 in this example)”
     and “Goods weight (100 KG in this example)” fields in the SAD window.
                                                                                            20
                       RMI Finance Ministry – Customs
                                  Division



Case 1: First Container contains Item 1st and 2nd Container contains Item 2




Case 2: First Container and 2nd Container contain both Item 1 and Item 2




                                                                              21
                         RMI Finance Ministry – Customs
                                    Division


 1.2.7.2 Deleting or modifying containers in the container form.

      A container may be deleted or modified by right clicking on the container and
      then selecting the “Delete container” or “Modify” option.




1.2.8 Carrying out “Register” operation to submit the customs
      declaration to RMI customs

  •   Once the declaration is correct without any errors, register the declaration by
      clicking on the “Validate”     icon at the top of the window. This will submit the
      declaration to customs, and the system will issue a customs reference number.




  •   Press tick sign     on the confirmation widow to confirm the validate declaration
      operation.



                                                                                           22
                           RMI Finance Ministry – Customs
                                      Division




    •   An automatic customs reference number will be issued and traders are expected to
        use this reference number for any correspondence with the RMI Customs. The box
        “Print S.A.D document” can be ticked to get the customs declaration print out.




•   An automatic e-mail message will be generated with the registered customs declaration
    as an attachment.




                                                                                           23
                         RMI Finance Ministry – Customs
                                    Division




•   Traders may search for the declaration in the document library and print their
    registered declaration.




                                                                                     24
                        RMI Finance Ministry – Customs
                                   Division




•   Use “view operation” to view the declaration and then “Print” button to print the
    customs declaration.




                                                                                        25
                             RMI Finance Ministry – Customs
                                        Division




2. XML Export and Import for Customs Declaration (SAD)

 2.1 To export (Save) Custom declaration data (SAD) data to an XML file.

  •   When preparing their customs declaration, traders can use the XML export
      option, which saves the data in XML on the machine in use. This facility
      does not require the completion of declarations.
  •   Trades are advised to use this option to avoid losing data already keyed in as
      a result of connectivity issues due to power failures, disabling the internet,
      etc.

  •   Use     button to store Customs declaration data to an XML format on your
      Desktop computer.




                                                                                       26
                          RMI Finance Ministry – Customs
                                     Division


•   Select a folder on the machine that is being used to store XML files and click
    “Save” button to execute the operation.




•   Click on the         tick sign to complete the operation and it will show you
    the location of the xml file saved.




                                                                                     27
                          RMI Finance Ministry – Customs
                                     Division


2.2 To import declaration data from a saved XML file to an empty declaration (SAD)
   eDocument.

    •   The XML import        option can be used to import saved XML data on to an empty
        customs Declaration (SAD). Traders may use this method to save declaration key-in
        time and also, maintain different XML templates as per their declaration types.




    •   Select the location of the XML file on your local drive and press “Open” to retrieve data.




▪

                                                                                                     28
                         RMI Finance Ministry – Customs
                                    Division
                                                                                                 ▪



▪   Click tick       sign to complete the operation.




▪   The empty SAD fields will be filled with data saved in the XML file.




▪   The traders may modify the retrieved data according to the current bill of lading and commercial
    invoice.




                                                                                                       29
                             RMI Finance Ministry – Customs
                                        Division


3. XLS (Microsoft Excel) Import for Customs Declaration (SAD)

  ▪   ASYCUDAWorld equipped with importing data from the preprepared Microsoft XLS file. Traders
      are required to prepare the MS XLS file with the declaration data in advance before using this
      facility. Traders can use pre-prepared XLS template to customize their declaration.



  ▪   Use          “Import from ASYCUDA XLS file” button to import data from MS XLS file.




  ▪   Select the location of the XLS file on your local drive and press “Open” to retrieve data.




  ▪   Click tick         sign to complete the operation.



                                                                                                   30
                          RMI Finance Ministry – Customs
                                     Division




▪   The empty SAD fields will be filled with the saved data from the XML file.

▪   The traders can modify the retrieved data according to the current bill of lading and commercial
    invoice.




                                                                                                       31
             RMI Finance Ministry – Customs
                        Division


             Appendix A – SAD fields and description

Box   Box Caption      Description
No.
A     Customs          A customs office at which a
      Clearance        declaration is lodged. In case of
      office*          IMPORT the field, name is: Office
                       of destination while in EXPORT it
                       is: Office of dispatch/Export
1     Declaration*     Typeof declaration code according
                          to the standard (EX1, EX2, IM4,
                       etc...)./.


2     Exporter*        Party who makes, or on whose
                       behalf, the export declaration is
                       made and who is the owner of the
                       goods or has similar right of
                       disposal over them at the time when
                       the declaration is accepted./. In case
                       of IMPORT the exporter is residing
                       outside the country of destination
                       and consequently his information
                       does not exist in the reference data
                       tables. Thus, his information is
                       entered manually as written in the
                       transaction’s documents. In case of
                       EXPORT, his information should
                       be stored in the relevant reference
                       table and could be filled in
                       automatically either popped up or
                       using the finder.
3                      Used by the system
4     Load List        The number of loading lists,
                       manifests or similar documents.
                       (Known also as bill of lading)


                                                                32
               RMI Finance Ministry – Customs
                          Division

5     Items               Number of declared items.


N/A   Manifest            Reference number to identify a
                          manifest.
6     No. packages        Total number of packages for the
                          whole declaration; packages are
                          made in such a way that they cannot
                          be divided without first undoing the
                          packing.
7     Reference           Trader’s    Declaration   reference
      number              number. A number given to the
                          declaration   from    the   trader’s
                          register. The trader can use it to
                          retrieve/modify his declarations.
8     Consignee*          Name [and address] of party who
                          makes, or on whose behalf a
                          Customs clearing agent or other
                          authorized  person   makes, an
                          import declaration. This may
                          include   a  person   who    has
                          possession of the goods or to
                          whom the goods are consigned.
9     Financial*          Name and address of the party
                          responsible for either the transfer
                          or repatriation of the funds
                          relating to a transaction
10    County       last   Country from which goods have
      con.*               been or will be consigned prior to
                          final importation
11    Trading cty.*       Country in which the deal was
                          done. (It might be useful as an
                          indicator for the customs value)
12    Value details       Additional cost items.
13    C.A.P*              Common Agricultural Policy. (For
                          EU countries)

                                                                 33
             RMI Finance Ministry – Customs
                        Division

14   Declarant*        Customs clearing agent; could be
                       the trader, if he is authorized to
                       clear his consignments by himself,
                       or a brokerage agency.


15   Country    of     Country from which goods are
     export*           dispatched between countries of a
                       Customs union, Dispatch country,
                       Country of exportation, Country
                       of provenance.


16   Country    of     Country in which the goods have
     origin*           been produced or manufactured,
                       according to criteria laid down for
                       the application of the Customs
                       tariff or quantitative restrictions
                       (quota), or any measure related to
                       trade.


17   C.D.*             Country    of   destination; the
                       country to which a consignment is
                       to be delivered to the final
                       consignee.


18   Identity   and    Means of transport used at the
     nationality* of   time of presentation (departure for
        active         export, arrival for import) of the
     means             consignment to a Customs office in
        of transport   the context of a goods declaration.
     at departure
19   Ctr.              An indication whether goods are
                       transported in a container or not.


20   Delivery          Terms of delivery,     coded,   Inco
     terms*            terms Code



                                                              34
             RMI Finance Ministry – Customs
                        Division

21   Identity and       Description of a type of means of
     nationality*       transport.
     of active
     means of
     transport
     crossing the
     border
22   Currency*    &     Total monetary amount charged in
     total    amount    respect of one or more invoices
     invoiced           associated with the currency in
                        which goods were purchased. The
                        red underline draws the user’s
                        attention to fill in the general
                        valuation note form.


23   Exch. Rate*        The rate at which one specified
                        currency is expressed in another
                        specified currency.


24   Nature     of      Code-1 specifying a type        of
     transact.*         contract./. Main category


24   Nature     of      Code-2 specifying a type        of
     transact.*         contract./. Sub category


                        Code-1 and Code-2 should read
                        together    I  order   to   give  a
                        comprehensive      description   of
                        nature of transaction.
25   Mode               Code specifying a type of means of
     transport       at transport.
     border*
26   Inland   mode Code specifying a type of means of
     transport*    transport       for     in-country
                   transportation.


                                                              35
              RMI Finance Ministry – Customs
                         Division

27   Place     of       Name of a seaport, airport, freight
     discharge*         terminal, rail station or other place
                        at which goods are loaded onto the
                        means of transport being used for
                        their carriage.


28   Financial and Bank code
     banking data*
28                 Terms of payment.
29   Office       of    Customs office at which the goods
     entry*             enter the customs territory of
                        destination.


30   Location     of    Name of the place where a specific
     goods*             goods item is located and eventual
                        location   in    which     physical
                        inspection might take place.


31   Packages and Plain language description of the
     description of nature of a goods item sufficient to
     goods*         identify it for customs, statistical or
                    transport purposes. The kind of
                    package code is chosen from a pull-
                    down menu and the corresponding
                    text is printed on the next line.


32   Item No.           Serial number of the item in that
                        declaration.


33   Commodity          Code      (Harmonized    system)
     code*              specifying a type of goods for
                        Customs, transport or statistical
                        purposes (generic term).


34   Cty. Orig.         A code to identify the country in
     Code*              which the goods       have been

                                                                36
             RMI Finance Ministry – Customs
                        Division

                       produced       or      manufactured,
                       according to criteria laid down for
                       the application of the Customs
                       tariff or quantitative restrictions, or
                       any measure related to trade.


35   Gross mass        Weight (mass) of goods including
                       packaging     but  excluding the
                       carrier's equipment.


36   Prefer. Code*     Code     specifying    a    regime
                       according to which tax is assessed
                       such as preferential duty rate.


37   PROCEDURE         Code     specifying a procedure
     *                 performed by Customs on goods
                       which are subject to Customs
                       control.
38   Net mass          Weight (mass) of goods without
                       any packaging.
39   Quota             Quota reference; when a quota
                       related transaction is in question,
                       eligible traders should fill in this
                       field with the appropriate quota
                       reference. In a well-designed
                       system, when a quota is depleted,
                       the trader should be treated
                       differently   according     to   the
                       regulations in force.
40   Summary           The  identifier of       a   previous
     declaration/      Customs document.
     Previous
     document
41   Supplementary     Quantity of the goods in the unit
     units             as required by Customs for tariff,
                       statistical or fiscal purposes.

                                                                 37
             RMI Finance Ministry – Customs
                        Division

42   Item price        Amount due for each chargeable
                       item of goods or services.


43   Valuation         Method used to value the declared
     method code*      item.


44   Additional        Identifier of a document providing
     information       additional information.


45   Adjustment        Monetary      Amount   Adjustment.
                       Identifier;

                       To identify an adjustment to a
                       monetary amount such as an
                       allowance or charge. (Percentage
                       converted into a 2-digit decimal
                       fraction)


46   Statistical       Value     declared   for statistical
     value             purposes of those goods in a
                       consignment having the same
                       statistical heading.


47   Calculation   of A    mathematical     formula      is
     taxes            adopted to calculate the various
                      duties / taxes /fees due on each
                      item of the consignment. This
                      encompasses; duties or         taxes
                      applicable to commodities or a
                      type of tax or fee applicable to
                      services. The formula is applied
                      on the tax base relevant to each tax
                      type.
48   Deferred          Reference number identifying a
     payment           payment of a duty or tax e.g. under
                       a transit procedure.

                                                              38
             RMI Finance Ministry – Customs
                        Division

49   Identification     To identify a warehouse where a
     of                 particular consignment has been
     warehouse*         stored.


50   Principal*         Name and address of a party liable
                        for goods moving under a customs
                        authorization      and,     when
                        applicable, a guarantee.


51   Intended          Name of the customs office which
     office         of is responsible for transit formalities
     transit           en route.


52   Guarantee not Customs office at which a security
     valid for     or guarantee for the movement of
                   goods under a transit procedure is
                   lodged.


53   Office     of   Name of the customs office at
     destination and which goods are released from a
     country         Customs transit regime.


54   Place        and   To be filled by the representative of
     date               the trader indicating the date of the
                        declaration and the name of the
                        representative.




                                                                39
