             ASYCUDA WORLD INTRODUCTORY MANUAL


1.      INTRODUCTION
One of the mandates of the Barbados Revenue Authority is to serve with efficiency and
flexibility whilst embracing new innovations and concepts. In this regard we have launched
ASYCUDA World.

The Cargo Manifest is the first step in the Customs clearance process and shall be
submitted to Customs using ASYCUDA World. The main purpose of the Cargo manifest
is to provide necessary information about cargo for transport, commercial and regulatory
reasons. It is traditionally used by Customs as a control tool to ensure that all cargo
carried onboard a vessel is accounted for, usually by means of individual customs
declarations. It also gives the national Customs some advance information on imported
cargo in order to plan examination priorities, risk assessment and optimize allocation of
resources. ASYCUDA World provides Customs and Traders the means to achieve greater
efficiencies towards reducing clearance times and improvement of the business climate of
Barbados.
Access to ASYCUDA World is to be granted through an application process. A user or
director of an entity applies to the Revenue Commissioner using the prescribed form called
“ASYCUDA WORLD USER AUTHORIZATION FORM”. The form makes provisions for
a principal user (The applicant) and persons who can act on behalf of the applicant. Each
commercial type applicant account will be linked to a national tax payer Identification
Number, being a Value Added Tax (VAT) or Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN). Thus,
each user included on an application will also be linked to the principal tax payer ID. The
Barbados Revenue Authority will issue each applicant and its designated user(s) with a login
name and initial password to enable access to ASYCUDA World. Once a user has logged in
successfully, the system will force a change of password based on a predetermined level of
complexity that enhances the strength of the password. Once the password is successfully
changed, the user may subsequently change the password at his or her discretion. However,
the system will force a change of password every six months or whenever a user request a
password change due to a forgotten or compromised password.

Welcome to ASYCUDA WORLD!




                                                                                 1|Page
2.     ACCESS TO THE SYSTEM
Access to Barbados ASYCUDA World is through the following URL:
http://asycuda.bra.gov.bb:8085

Access to ASYCUDA World is to be granted through an application process which entails
submitting an application form with a passport size photograph. After application, users are
issued with a Username and Password.

Click on the ASYCUDA World logo on the web page as shown in Figure 1.




                                                                                               Click on the
                                                                                               ASYCUDA
                                                                                               World icon




                                       Figure 1 URL web page



The following two boxes shown in Figure 2 are displayed.




                                                                                       2|Page
                                Figure 2 Accessing ASYCUDA World

Click on “I accept the risk and want to run this application”.

The “Java Console” shown in Figure 3 and “login” interface shown in Figure 4 will be
displayed.




                                                                           3|Page
The Java Concole consists of launching, logging and performance functions of the ASYCUDA
World application. Where login issues develop, the console contents should be e-mailed to the
ASYCUDA World technical team to assist with solving the problems.




                                      Figure 3 Java Console




                                                                               Click here
                                                                               after entering
                                                                               login
                                                                               information




                                     Figure 4 Login interface




                                                                                   4|Page
3.      LOGGING INTO THE SYSTEM
Insert the relevant login name and password into the login interface shown in Figure 4 and click

on the         icon. The following screen shown in Figure 5 is displayed indicating that the
system has been accessed.




                               Figure 5 Access page to ASYCUDA World



4.     THE APPLICATION MAIN SCREEN
The screen is comprised of the following as shown in Figure 6:
       Title Bar: the name of the application and user’s name.
       Menu bar: containing the various functionality of system.
       Icons bar: short cut to the system document and other functionality;
       Work space area: area where all documents are opened; and
       Task bar: contains the different processing tasks and open documents.




                                                                                      5|Page
                  Title bar         Menu bar                Icons bar




                                                                                          Work space
                                                                                            area




                                  Figure 6 Application main screen
                 Tasks bar


Menu Bar Options
The menu bar consists of the “File”, “View”, “Windows” and “help” options as shown in Figure
7.




                                     Figure 7 Menu bar options


The “File” Option
Clicking on “file” gives three options: Document library, New and Exit as shown in Figure 8.




                                                                                     6|Page
                                       Figure 8 File menu options


The “Document Library” option permits the search of this facility without using the main
window as shown in Figure 9. It is therefore an alternative to the Document Library tool bar.




                                     Figure 8 Use of the File menu

Selecting “New” provides a direct link for creating e-mail messages to system users as shown in
Figure 9.




                                    Figure 9 Display of “New” option

Selecting “exit” enables users to exit the system.

                                                                                     7|Page
The “View” Option
This facility provides four options: Access to the Document library, Mailbox, Tool bar and Task
bar as shown in Figure 10.




                                        Figure 10 View options

Selecting an option enable it to be displayed. An option is not displayed if deselected.

The “Window” Option
Selecting the “Window” provides the options displayed in Figure 11.




                                       Figure 11 Window options

The “cascade” option displays all the currently opened documents in the cascade format as
shown in Figure 12.




                                                                                           8|Page
                             Figure 12 Cascade of currently open documents



The “Next” option activates the next document currently in use.
The “Previous” option activates the previous document.
The “Minimize” option collapses all open documents.
The “Clear Desktop” option closes all open documents.

The “Help” option is intended to provide online help for users. This facility is not currently
available.

Icon Bar Options
The” Icon bar” gives the options displayed in Figure 13.




                                      Figure 13 Icon Bar options



                                                                                    9|Page
The         icon opens the Document Finder as shown in Figure 14. It provides the general
research for documents in the stated categories.




                                Figure 14 Document search finder


The “online help”    icon provides a link to the online help which is currently unavailable.

The “document library”      icon provides another direct access to the document library.


The “email”     icon opens the electronic mailbox as shown in Figure 15.




                                  Figure 15 Electronic Mail-box

                                                                                     10 | P a g e
The “logoff”         icon closes the ASYCUDA World session. The system will prompt with a
box to confirm the end of the session as shown in Figure 16.




                                    Figure 16 Confirm to end session.


5.    THE DOCUMENT LIBRARY
The Document library as shown in Figure 17 opens in ASYCUDA after:
      (a)   logging on to the system;
      (b)   using “view” in the menu bar; or
      (c)   clicking the “Document library” icon in the Icons bar.

It consists of all the system documents to which a particular user has the rights. It is built with a
set of binders that contains documents. The binders are presented in an hierarchical order where
documents are grouped and linked together for performing a particular function.




                                      Figure 17 Document library

The binders are made up of e-documents.


                                                                                         11 | P a g e
     E-documents
     An e-document is a representation of a physical paper document to be used for processing or
     displaying data. Examples of e-documents are:
            (a)     a customs declaration;
            (b)     a statement; and
            (c)     a table.


     The e-documents are represented by the       and are contained in a binder. The binder icon
     should be continuously clicked until the e-documents icon is displayed as shown in Figure 18.




Click to open
   binder




                                                                                          E-document icon




                                        Figure 18 Accessing e-documents

     Right click on the e-document icon to display the document as select “new” as shown in Figure
     19.




                                                                                          12 | P a g e
                                  Figure 19 Finding an e-document

A new e-document will be displayed as shown in Figure 20.




                               Figure 20 Example of a new e-document

                                                                       13 | P a g e
         E-document options
         Each e-document has three options as follows:
         Option 1 to minimise the document to the task bar;
         Option 2 to expand the document to cover the working area; and
         Option 3 to close the document without any modification as shown in Figure 21.


                                                         Option 2




                         Option 1                                                               Option 3


                                                Figure 21 e-document options



         E-document fields
         E-documents consist of spaces for entering data called “fields”. It is mandatory that some of the
         fields be populated with data. These fields are displayed in red. The entry of data in other fields
         is optional and are coloured blue as shown in Figure 22.




                                                                                                                    Mandatory
                                                                                                                   data fields in
  Optional
                                                                                                                        red
data fields in
    blue




                                 Figure 22 Illustration of Mandatory and Optional data fields

                                                                                                           14 | P a g e
NB: The tab button should be used to navigate between fields.

Managing errors
Users can commit errors when completing e-documents. Committed errors are displayed by the
system when the “verify” or “validate" icons are selected. Error messages are displayed as
shown in Figure 23.




                                    Figure 23 Error Message Window

All messages should be corrected before continuing the process.
Double clicking each message will take the cursor to the error field.


USING THE FINDER
The finder is a powerful tool that facilitates the retrieval of documents lodged within the system.
It is available by right clicking on any category of documents and selecting “find” as shown in
Figure 24.




                                    Figure 24 Triggering the Finder
The Finder is displayed in Figure 25.
                                                                                        15 | P a g e
                                      Figure 25 Display of Finder

The utility offers the user multiple options to locate various types of declarations and contains
four columns as follows:
1. Name
2. Criteria
3. Value #1
4. Value #2

The “Name” column contains the names of various research fields as follows:
      (a)   Document Status – this is the status of the declaration and may be [stored,
            registered assessed, paid, exited, cancelled or archived.

       (b)     Clearance Office – This is office where goods are being cleared.

       (c)     Registration Serial – This is the letter preceding the Customs Registration
               Number.

       (d)     Registration Number –This is the serial letter assigned to assessed declarations
               by the Customs Registration Number (in this case it is C).

       (e)     Registration Date - This is the date the declaration was registered.

       (f)     Assessment Serial – This is the serial letter assigned to assessed declarations by
               the Customs Administration (in this case it is L).
                                                                                        16 | P a g e
       (g)    Assessment Number- This is the declaration assessment number.

       (h)    Assessment Date - This the date the declaration was assessed.

       (i)    Declarant - This is the declarant code.

       (j)    Declarant reference year – This is the year the declaration was prepared.

       (k)    Declarant reference – This is the declarants’ reference number.

       (l)    Type – EX: Exports or IM: Imports.

       (m)    General Procedure - Declaration model.

       (n)    Exporter – This is the exporters’ code.

       (o)    Consignee - This is the importers’ code.

       (p)    Examiner Chief – Chief Examiners name.

       (q)    Examiner – The examiners name.

       (r)    Section – This is the section code.

       (s)    Total Duties & Taxes – Total Duties & Taxes Amount.

       (t)    Colour - This is the declaration lane colour.

The “criteria” column provide the choices of research criteria and may include the following
options:

       (a)    All

       (b)    Less than

       (c)    Less than or equal

       (d)    Greater than

       (e)    Greater than or equal

                                                                                    17 | P a g e
       (f)    Not equal

       (g)    Equal

       (h)    Between

       (i)    Is empty

       (j)    Is not empty

       (k)    Starts with

       (l)    Ends with

       (m)    Contains substring

       (n)    Equals

The Value#1 column allows for filling research values and may be completed with criteria such
as the following:
Name: Registration Year – Criteria: Equals - Value#1: 2010.
The Value#2 may be completed with additional desired criteria as follows:
Name: Registration Year – Criteria: Between – Value #1: 2009 and Value #2: 2010.
The results of using the Finder are shown in Figure 26.




                                   Figure 26 Results of a Finder search

Select and right click on the desired document as shown in Figure 27 and the user options are
displayed. Select either “view” or “retrieve” to see the document. The “view” option does not
permit any adjustment to the document. Adjustments can be made in the “retrieve” option.
                                                                                   18 | P a g e
                                Figure 27 Finder results and view options.




THE MAILBOX
The mailbox facilitates the transmission of messages between system users. It is activated either
through:
       (a)    selecting “view” in the menu bar and clicking on “mailbox”;

       (b)     clicking on mailbox         in the Icon bar;
       (c)     displayed on the initial login to the system.

A new mail message is created by:

       (a)     clicking on the      icon; or
       (b)     clicking on “file” and selecting “new message”.




                                                                                      19 | P a g e
      The mail dialog box shown in Figure 28 is displayed when creating a new message:




                                                                                                  Message
                                                                                                   field

Attachments
    tab
                                     Figure 28 New mail message dialog box

      Attachments can be added to the mail by clicking on the “Attachments tab” and a dialog box as
      shown in Figure 29 is displayed.




                                     Figure 29 Attaching documents to mail


                                                                                         20 | P a g e
Click on “file” and select “Attach Document” as shown in Figure 29. The box as shown in
Figure 30 is displayed. Select the document and click “open” and the document is attached to the
mail.




                            Figure 30 Select the file to be attached to the mail



Click on       to send the mail.




                                                                                    21 | P a g e
