1
               TABLE OF CONTENTS



1. Definitions………………………………………………………………………………03

2. Table of Symbols…………………………………………………………………….05

3. Previous Declaration Form………………………………………………………06

4. The ASYCUDA WORLD Warehouse Stock Report……………………..10

5. Warehousing Declaration Preparation…………………………………….13

6. EX-Warehouse Declaration Preparation………………………………….14

7. Change of Goods Ownership Procedure………………………………….19

8. Temporary Import Declaration Preparation…………………………….27




                                                        2
  1. Definitions

  a) The suspense declarations regime type includes the following:


Declaration Description     Extended Description                 Additional Description
Model                       Procedure                            Code
                            Code
                            2000      Temporary Export for       000
                                      return in an unaltered
                                      state
                            2100      Temporary Export for       000         Common
EX 2         Temporary                return after repairs                   Regime
             Exports
                            2200        Temporary Export for     000
                                        outward processing

                            5000        Temporary Import for     000 - 230   See
                                        return in an unaltered               reference
                                        state                                tables
                            5100        Temporary Import for     000
IM 5         Temporary                  return after repairs
             Imports                                                         Common
                            5200        Temporary Import for     000         Regime
                                        return after inward
                                        processing

                            7000        Entry for warehousing    000
                                        in a private warehouse

                            7070        Transfer of goods from   000
                                        one private warehouse
                                        to another                           Common
                            7071        Transfer of goods from   000         Regime
IM 7         Entry for                  a duty free shop to a
             Warehousing                private warehouse
                            7095        Good entered for         000
                                        warehousing from a
                                        free zone
                            7100        Direct entry for         000
                                        warehousing; Duty
                                        free shop


                                                                                          3
 Declaration Description      Extended Description                  Additional Description
 Model                        Procedure                             Code
                              Code
                              7170      Transfer of goods from      000
                                        a private warehouse to
                                        a duty free shop
                              7171      Transfer of goods from      000
                                        one duty free shop to
 IM 7         Entry for                 another                                  Common
              warehousing     7194      Good entering a duty        000          Regime
                                        free shop after being
                                        locally manufactured
                              7195      Goods entering a duty       000
                                        free shop from a free
                                        zone
Table 1. Suspense Regimes




   b) The Delay Period - is the number of days the goods will remain in the suspense regime.
      This will be 730 days in the case of warehousing transactions.

   c) The Guarantee Account Reference - is the unique alpha numeric code assigned to the
      C58 bond. The SADs liability is deducted against the balance of this account. The
      guarantee reference code is inserted into field 49, “identification of warehouse” on the
      SAD main form.


   d) The Product Specification Code – This code may be made up of a maximum of
      seventeen alpha numeric characters. It is the unique identifier of products being
      warehoused. It is currently mandatory to include this code for warehousing products as
      this code is used to identify the products at the point of the preparation of the
      warehouse exit SAD. Reference this in field 33 on the SAD.

   e) The Item Quantity – is the numerical value representing the quantity of pieces being
      moved. It may be the number of bottles in the case of alcohol.




                                                                                               4
   2. Table of Symbols
   Symbol       Description
                “Verify the document” to check all the document fields for coherence and
                syntax.
                “Assess”: Assess a SAD.
                “Store”: Store the SAD on the ASYCUDA server.
                “XML Import”: Import a SAD xml file from the local computer.
                “XML Export” : Export a SAD xml file to the local computer.
                “Print”: Print the assessed SAD.

                “Total Mass”: View the total mass of all the SAD items.

                “Change Goods Ownership”: Reserved for future use.

                “Add Item”: creates an additional page to the SAD main form.

                “Delete whole Page”: deletes the complete SAD page.

                “Delete item”: Deletes the selected item line from the SAD page.

                “Query Response”: Submits the SAD for post entry after modification from
                query.
Table 2. ASYCUDA World SAD menu iconography.




                                                                                           5
    3. Previous Declaration Form
On assessment of a suspense declaration, the system generates a simplified version of the SAD.
This simplified version is then referenced as the “Previous Declaration”


To access this “Previous Declaration Form”,
navigate the document library using the
following path:
ASCYCUDA >> Goods Clearance >>
Declaration >> Previous Declaration. Right
Click the option: Previous Declaration and
select the option “Find” as seen in figure 2.
The system will invoke the finder. Input the
relevant information into the finder then
click the     icon to retrieve the records.
The finder will display the results showing
the following:
                                                FIGURE 1. Previous Declaration Finder Option

  a) Clearance Office – The office where the goods are located.
  b) General Procedure – This indicates the SAD regime used.
  c) Registration Serial – The letter assigned by the system to registered SADs.
  d) Registration Date – The date the SAD was registered.
  e) Assessment Serial – The letter assigned by the system to assessed SADs.
  f) Assessment Number – The sequence number assigned to the SAD at assessment.
  g) Assessment Date – The date the SAD was assessed.
  h) Declarant Code – The ASYCUDA code assigned to the declarant.
  i) Declarant Reference – The alpha numeric characters given to the SAD by the declarant.
  j) Exporter – For temporary export SADs, it will indicate the exporter’s code.
  k) Consignee – The importer of the goods.
  l) Expiration – This signifies the end date of the suspense period.




                                                                                               6
Right click the record result and select the “View” Option.
The system will display the “Previous Declaration” form for viewing.
The form consists of three segments. They are described below:

  I.   General Segment

       This area of the form displays a window containing the following:

       a) Exporter – Only applicable for temporary export SADs.
       b) Consignee – For warehousing SADs, this is the owner the goods.
       c) Declarant – The declarant who prepared the SAD.
       d) Customs Reference – Will display the Customs registration and assessment numbers
          and dates of registration and assessment.
       e) Reference number – The declarant’s unique identifier for the SAD.
       f) Items – Total number of items on the SAD.
       g) Number of packages – The total number of packages on the SAD.
       h) Identification of warehouse – Only applicable for warehousing SADs. It will display
          the reference number for the warehouse.
       The item summary will list the goods by item, according to the regime selected by the
       declarant. Temporary Export and Temporary Import SADs will feature the following:
       a) SAD line number including the HS Code & Country of Origin.
       b) The exporter or importers code.
       c) Initial Weight.
       d) Initial Supplementary Units.
       e) Remaining Mass
       f) Remaining Supplementary Units


 Figures 2 and 3 shows an example of the general segment page of a “Previous Declaration”
form of a Temporary Export and Temporary Import transaction respectively.




                                                                                               7
Figure 2. Temporary Export Previous Declaration Form




Figure 3. Temporary Import Previous Declaration Form


                                                       8
       The item summary will be displayed in the following format, when the declaration was
       assessed under the IM7 regime:
       g) SAD line number including the HS Code, Product Identification Code, Country of
          Origin, Current Goods Owner and (New Goods Owner: Applicable when a change of
          ownership procedure has been completed).
       h) The Initial Weight.
       i) Initial Supplementary Units.
       j) Remaining Mass.
       k) Remaining Supplementary Units
This information is important in determining the remaining quantities of the items warehoused
when performing the EX-Warehouse procedure.



 II.   Items Segment
Here the system displays all the information for a specific line of the suspense declaration. This
includes HS Code, Item Specification Code (where applicable), Country of Origin, Procedure
Code, Initial Weight, Initial Supplementary Units and C.I.F Reference Unit. See an IM7 item
segment illustrated in figure 4.




Figure 4. IM 7 SAD item segment




                                                                                                     9
III.   Transactions Summary Segment
Here the system displays a listing of all transactions associated with the initial suspense
declaration. They are as follows:
    1. Declaration Entry listing – The system will list in BLUE, all items initially placed in the
       suspense regime and all subsequent write off transactions will be listed in BROWN.
       These will include:
       a) The SAD item line number.
       b) HS Code of the item.
       c) Country of Origin of the product.
       d) Year, Office Code, Registration Number of the initial SAD and the Transaction
          Sequence Number.
       e) The initial Supplementary Units, Weight and Value.
       f) The remaining Supplementary Units, Weight and Value.



    4. The ASYCUDA WORLD Warehouse Stock Report
ASYCUDA World offers the declarant the following report for suspense declarations.
It may be accessed by navigating the ASYCUDA World document library and following the path:


ASCYCUDA >> Asycuda World Reports >>
Right click the option: Reports and select
the function: “Open”. See the illustration in
figure 5.




                                                       Figure 5. ASYCUDA World Reports




                                                                                                     10
The system will display the
blank report form. Click the
drop down option and select
the “Report Category”:
“BROKERS” from the drop
down list.




                                 Figure 6. Report Category selection screen.

The system will display a
listing of reports available
under the category selected.
 Click on the required report,
then right click to reveal the   Figure 7. ASYCUDA WORLD Reports showing the select option
“select” option. See the
illustration in figure 7. The
system will display a blank
form. Complete the form by
inserting the following:
   a) Company – Insert the
      importer code used
      on the warehousing
      SAD.
   b) Warehouse – Insert
      the Guarantee
      Account reference.
   c) Choose the output
      file type.                  Figure 8. ASYCUDA WORLD warehouse stock report form
   d) Select the    icon
      to submit the
      request.

                                                                                        11
The system will display a
confirmation message. See

figure 9. Click the  icon
to confirm and generate the
report.
                                          Figure 9. Confirmation message




Figure 10. ASYCUDA WORLD Stock report


 The report will contain the following:
    a) Warehouse Code
    b) Company Code
    c) Customs Declaration Registration Number
    d) Declaration Registration Year
    e) Goods Expiry Date
    f) Product(s) HS Code
    g) Product Identification Code
    h) Goods Country of Origin
    i) Goods Remaining Quantity




                                                                           12
5. Warehousing Declaration Preparation
The Process

 Access the ASYCUDA WORLD document library
 and follow the path: ASYCUDA >> Goods
 Clearance >> Declaration >> Detailed
 Declaration: Right Click the option Detailed
 Declaration and select the option “New”.
  The system will retrieve a blank SAD requiring
  the declarant to key in the details of the
  shipment. Complete the SAD in its entirety
  paying attention to the following:
     1.   Tariff Number                               Figure 11. New Declaration Option
     2.   Country of Origin
     3.   Product Identification
     4.   Item quantity
     5.   Supplementary Units
     6.   Customs Value
     7.   Commercial Description


 For a comprehensive guide for SAD declaration preparation procedures, please consult the
 Brokers User Manual. It may be accessed at the following link ………………………………….

 Ensure that all mandatory fields are completed by clicking the     icon to perform a
 document check. If no errors are seen during the check, proceed to assess the declaration

 using the       icon.
 After assessment, the duties and taxes will not be payable as they are secured against the
 warehouse guarantee account which is the C58 Bond. However, the payment of CSCP Fees
 or Global Standard Fees may apply.
 Once paid, a selectivity lane will be automatically triggered by the system for risk
 management purposes.
 According to the lane assigned, the declarant may be required to proceed to Customs for
 examination and delivery of the goods.




                                                                                              13
6. EX-Warehouse Declaration Preparation
The Models of declaration for these SADs may include EX3 for goods sold duty free or re-
exported and IM4 for goods sold duty paid.
The re-export procedure codes include:
3070: Re-exported from a private warehouse.
3071: Re-exported from a duty-free shop, with the additional code 113 to identify duty-free
sales.
Duty paid or Import procedure codes include:
4070: Duty paid from a private warehouse.
4071: Duty paid from a duty –free shop.
It should be noted further that the above procedures may also be used with the appropriate
additional code where a concession is being claimed.

The Process
 Access the ASYCUDA WORLD document library
 and follow the path: ASYCUDA >>Goods
 Clearance >> Declaration >> Detailed
 Declaration: Right Click the option Detailed
 Declaration and select the option “New”.
 The system will retrieve a blank SAD requiring
 the declarant to key in the details of the
 shipment. Complete the following fields in
 the SAD General Segment:
     a) Clearance Office Code
     b) Model of Declaration                           Figure 12. New Declaration Option
     c) Consignee Code
     d) Declarant Code (where applicable)
     e) Customs Procedure Code (including
        the additional code)
     f) Warehouse Identification Code
 Pro Tip: Consult the “Previous Declaration
 Form” explained on pages 6-8 or the
 “ASYCUDA WORLD Stock Report” explained
 on pages 8-12 as a guide in obtaining
 accurate information while preparing the
 EX-Ware SAD.
                                                                                              14
On inputting the Customs
Procedure Codes, the
system will enable the
“Previous Declaration” tab
on the SAD form. See figure
13. Select this Tab to insert
the following information
                                                 Figure 13. Previous Declaration Tab
from the initial IM 7 SAD:
   g) Office Code – Insert
      the clearance office.
   h) Year – Insert the
      SAD Registration
      Year.
   i) Registration Number
      – Insert the SAD
      Customs
      Registration
      number.
   j) Item Number –
      Insert the
      corresponding line
      number from the
      initial SAD for the
      goods being
      removed.                  Figure 14. SAD Previous Declaration page ready for completion.


The system may present various warnings at this stage. It may indicate that the goods have not been
released by Customs or the declaration cannot be found. Please verify the accuracy of the
information inserted. If you are certain of the validity of the information, please contact the Customs
Warehousing Section for further assistance. Otherwise proceed.




                                                                                                 15
  Figure 15. Partially completed SAD previous declaration page

On inserting valid data, the system will display the following information within the “previous
declaration” segment of the page:

          The HS Code of the item being removed.
          The Country of Origin of the item being removed.
          The Product ID of the item being removed.
          The commercial Description being removed.
          The initial and remaining Quantity.
          The initial and remaining Packages (Where applicable).
          The initial and remaining Net Weight.
          The Reference CIF Value.
          The initial and remaining Supplementary Value (where applicable).
The system will insert the item HS Code into the “Current Declaration” segment of the page. The
user is then required to input the “Supplementary” units being removed. The item’s “Net
Weight” and “Reference CIF Value will automatically be calculated based on the quantity
inputted. See the illustration in figure 16.




                                                                                                  16
Figure 16. SAD Previous Documents Page
                                                                Net Mass and Reference CIF
                                                                Value automatically calculated




 On selecting the    icon, the system will
 display the confirmation message seen in

 Figure 17. If yes, select the   option to
 continue. Otherwise, select the     option.      Figure 17. Add item #2 confirmation message
 The system will add the first item to the
 list as shown in figure 18.




Figure 18. Current declaration page showing one item in the list.

 The system permits the inputting of additional items. The user will be required to input the
 declaration and items details in the “Previous Declaration” segment and repeat the process
 outlined above.




                                                                                                 17
 Once all items have been added to the “Current Declaration” segment, the system will
 automatically populate the following fields:



 SAD GENERAL SEGMENT
 BOX         FIELD NAME
 NUMBER
 16          Country of Origin Name
 22          Currency and total amount invoiced
 23          Exchange Rate
 31          Package Number, Type and Commercial Description
 32          HS Code and Product Identification
 34          Country of Origin Code
 35          Gross Weight in Kgs
 37          Procedure Code
 38          Net Weight in Kgs
 40          Previous Document Summary
 41          Item Quantity
 42          Item Price
 46          Customs Value
 Valuation Note General Segment
 BOX         FIELD NAME
 NUMBER
             Invoice Value
Table 3. EX- Warehouse SAD fields auto populated by the ASYCUDA


 Perform a SAD verification by clicking the      icon in the SAD menu. The system will
 highlight the additional mandatory fields in RED. An error message will also be displayed,
 listing these mandatory fields. Input the requisite information into the appropriate fields,
 attach all supporting documentation, and then ASSESS the SAD.




                                                                                                18
7. Change of Goods Ownership Procedure

 ASYCUDA WORLD requires Customs to transfer ownership of products sold from one
 warehouse operator to another. The broker of the current goods owner will submit a
 request to transfer the individual items from the ASYCUDA stock to the receiving
 warehouse owner. The officer will request that both parties be available to present the
 completed Transfer of Warehouse Goods Form. The preparation of a SAD is mandatory to
 credit the duty liability of the products from the guarantee account of the previous
 warehouse owner and debit that of the receiving owner.
 The Model of Declaration used for these SADs is IM7. The procedure codes may be either of
 the following: 7070, 7171, 7071 or 7170. See table 1 for a detailed explanation of each
 procedure.

 The Process
 Access the ASYCUDA WORLD document
 library and follow the path: ASYCUDA >>
 Goods Clearance >> Warehouse Stock
 Management >> Change Goods Ownership:
 Right Click the option “Change Goods
 Ownership” and select the option “Request
 Transfer”.
 The system will display the blank “Goods
 Change of Ownership” page. See figure 20.




                                         Figure 19. Request Change Goods Ownership Option




                                                                                             19
Figure 20. Change of goods ownership form.

 a) Select the warehouse code from the list to retrieve the available products for transfer.
 b) Input the current goods owner’s code.
 c) Input the declarant’s code.
 d) Input a unique reference for this change of ownership document.
 e) Click the       option to retrieve the available goods. The system will display a listing of
           icons indicating the warehouse code and current owner’s name.
 f) Click the first level icon to reveal a listing of second level    icons. These will display
    a listing of all the available goods, including their HS Code and country of origin. A
    further click of each individual item will reveal the IM7’s Registration Year, Clearance
    Office Code, Registration Number and item line number. The system will also list the
    goods remaining weight and supplementary units.
 g) Right click the second level        icon line featuring the goods HS Code and Origin to

     reveal the                  option.

                                                                                                   20
h) Click the
   option. The system will
   display a dialog box as seen
   in figure 21. The box will
   display the available
   supplementary quantity of
   the goods available for        Figure 21. Transfer supplementary units dialog box.
   transfer.
i) Input the supplementary
   quantity to be transferred

   then click the       option.
   The system will list the
   item and the inputted
   supplementary quantity &
   weight, in the “Goods        Figure 22. Goods selected for change of ownership
   requested for transfer of
   ownership” segment. See
   figure 22.
j) Repeat steps h &i:
   “selection”& “Supp. Units”
   procedure to add required
   items to the list for
   transfer.
k) Input the “New Goods
   Owner” code into the field
   labelled: “New Owner.
l) The number of days shown
   indicates the maximum
   period in days allowed for
   the completion of the
   procedure. The default
   period is 14 days. However, Figure 23. Change of goods ownership “Changes Segment”
   the transfer must be
   completed within the
   period inputted, otherwise
   the system will
   automatically return the
   goods to the original
   owner.


                                                                                        21
   m) Select the “attach scanned
      doc” tab and attach all
      supporting documentation
      for the goods change of
      ownership.
   n) Verify the document then

      click the    icon to           Figure 24. Transaction Completed
      submit the request for
      Customs approval.
   o) The system will display the
      message seen in figure 24.
   p) Once the request has
      been assessed by
      Customs, an automatic
      email is sent to the
      declarant’s account
      indicating the status of the
      request. See figure 25.        Figure 25. Email message showing the request details


On approval of the “request”, the declarant representing the “New Goods Owner” will be
responsible for the preparation of the “Change Goods Ownership” SAD.

Change of Goods Ownership SAD

Access the ASYCUDA WORLD
document library and follow the path:
ASYCUDA >>Goods Clearance >>
Declaration >> Detailed Declaration:
Right Click the option Detailed
Declaration and select the option
“New”.




                                          Figure 26. New SAD option




                                                                                            22
The system will retrieve a blank SAD requiring the declarant to key in the details of the transfer.
Complete the following fields in the SAD General Segment:
   a) Clearance Office Code
   b) Model of Declaration
   c) Consignee Code (New Goods Owner)
   d) Declarant Code (where applicable)
   e) Customs Procedure Code (7070,7071,7171 and 7170)
   f) Warehouse Identification Code (New Warehouse)


 On inputting the Customs
 Procedure Codes, the
 system will enable the
 “Previous Declaration” tab                        Figure 27. Previous Declaration Tab
 on the SAD form. See figure
 27. Select this Tab to insert
 the following information
 from the previous owner’s
 IM 7 SAD:
    g) Office Code – Insert
       the clearance office.
    h) Year – Insert the
       SAD Registration
       Year.
    i) Registration Number
       – Insert the SAD
       Customs
       Registration
       number.
    j) Item Number –
       Insert the
       corresponding line        Figure 28. SAD Previous Declaration page ready for completion.
       number from the
       initial SAD for the
       goods being
       transferred.




                                                                                                      23
  Figure 29. SAD previous declaration page goods change of ownership

On inserting valid data, the system will display the following information within the “previous
declaration” segment of the page:

          The HS Code of the item being transferred.
          The Country of Origin of the item being transferred.
          The Product ID of the item being transferred.
          The commercial Description being transferred.
          The initial and remaining Quantity. (The remaining quantity is the full amount to be
           transferred to the new owner).
          The initial and remaining Packages (Where applicable).
          The initial and remaining Net Weight.
          The Reference CIF Value.
          The initial and remaining Supplementary Value (where applicable).
The system will insert the item HS Code into the “Current Declaration” segment of the page. The
user is then required to input the full “Supplementary” units being transferred. The item’s “Net
Weight” and “Reference CIF Value will automatically be calculated based on the quantity
inputted. See the illustration in figure 30.




                                                                                                  24
Figure 30. SAD Previous Documents Page
                                                                Net Mass and Reference CIF
                                                                Value automatically calculated


  On selecting the    icon, the system will
  display the confirmation message seen in

  Figure 31. If yes, select the   option to
  continue. Otherwise, select the     option.
  The system will add the first item to the       Figure 31. Add item #2 confirmation message
  list as shown in figure 18.




Figure 32. Current declaration page showing one item in the list.

 The system permits the inputting of additional items. The user will be required to input the
 declaration and items details in the “Previous Declaration” segment and repeat the process
 outlined above.



                                                                                                 25
 Once all items have been added to the “Current Declaration” segment, the system will
 automatically populate the following fields:



 SAD GENERAL SEGMENT
 BOX        FIELD NAME
 NUMBER
 16         Country of Origin Name
 22         Currency and total amount invoiced
 23         Exchange Rate
 31         Package Number, Type and Commercial Description
 32         HS Code and Product Identification
 34         Country of Origin Code
 35         Gross Weight in Kgs
 37         Procedure Code
 38         Net Weight in Kgs
 40         Previous Document Summary
 41         Item Quantity
 42         Item Price
 46         Customs Value
 Valuation Note General Segment
 BOX        FIELD NAME
 NUMBER
            Invoice Value
Table 4. Change of Goods Ownership Warehouse SAD fields auto populated by the ASYCUDA


 Perform a SAD verification by clicking the      icon in the SAD menu. The system will
 highlight the additional mandatory fields in RED. An error message will also be displayed,
 listing these mandatory fields. Input the requisite information into the appropriate fields,
 attach all supporting documentation, and then ASSESS the SAD.




                                                                                                26
8. Temporary Import declaration preparation
 Goods meant for temporary importation are dutiable at the rates listed below:
 Unless exempted by any provision of law or Cabinet Conclusion,
       a) Full Service Charge is payable at the time of importation.
       b) 5% or 10% of the applicable duties (Import Duty, Excise Tax and or Value Added Tax)
          is payable at the time of importation. Thereafter the same rate is chargeable every
          quarter for the duration of time the goods remain in the state until re-exportation.
          The availability of such goods on island at the time of importation determines the
          rate applied. The application of the above procedures necessitated the
             utillisation of the “Ask Tax” function in ASYCUDA World. The procedure
             is explained below:
 The broker is required to manually key in the values, rate and tax amount
 payable for each item line.
 The Model of Declaration applied for this SAD type is IM5 and the procedure codes may be;
 5000, 5100, or 5200. See table 1 for a detailed description of each procedure.
 Access the ASYCUDA WORLD document library
 and follow the path: ASYCUDA >> Goods
 Clearance >> Declaration >> Detailed
 Declaration: Right Click the option Detailed
 Declaration and select the option “New”.
 The system will present the user with a blank SAD for
 completion. After providing all the requisite
 information, perform a SAD verification. A screen will                              Figure 33. New Declaration option
 appear, prompting the user to insert values for all
 taxes for the first line item of the SAD. Insert the
 following values for taxes applicable to the
 commodity item:
       a) The value base amount (Customs Value),                                     Figure 34. Manual item tax screen
       b) Tax rate (rate applicable for this HS Code) and
       c) The amount payable for the applicable tax (5% or
          10% of the amount payable of the rate above)
 Tip: Insert a zero value into each field for taxes that are not applicable to the
 commodity item. Example, an item where Import Duty is not payable by HS Code,
 the user should insert “0” into the “Rate and Amount” fields of the manual tax
 screen.

 The system will present this manual tax screen for all SAD
 line items. Insert the required values into each prompt.
 The SAD will display the “Verified” message. Proceed to
 SAD assessment. Each prompt will appear once again with
 all information pre-inserted. Click the green tick for each
 screen until presented by the SAD assessment screen.                                                                    27
